## 4.3 Writing a Grammar

### 4.3.1

> The following is a grammar for regular expressions over symbols $$a$$ and $$b$$ only, using `+` in place of `|` for union, to avoid conflict with the use of vertical bar as a metasymbol in grammars:

> $$
\begin{array}{lll}
rexpr &\rightarrow& rexpr~+~rterm~|~rterm \\
rterm &\rightarrow& rterm~rfactor~|~rfactor \\
rfactor &\rightarrow& rfactor~*~|~rprimary \\
rprimary &\rightarrow& \mathbf{a}~|~\mathbf{b} \\
\end{array}
$$

> a) Left factor this grammar.

No left factor.

> b) Dose left factoring make the grammar suitable for top-down parsing?

No.

> c) In addition to left factoring, eliminate left recursion from the original grammar.

$$
\begin{array}{lll}
rexpr &\rightarrow& rterm~rexpr' \\
rexpr' &\rightarrow& +~rexpr'~|~\epsilon \\
rterm &\rightarrow& rfactor~rterm' \\
rterm' &\rightarrow& rfactor~rterm'~|~\epsilon \\
rfactor &\rightarrow& rprimary~rfactor' \\
rfactor' &\rightarrow& *~rfactor'~|~\epsilon \\
rprimary &\rightarrow& \mathbf{a}~|~\mathbf{b} \\
\end{array}
$$

> d) Is the resulting grammar suitable for top-down parsing?

Yes.

### 4.3.2

> Repeat Exercise 4.3.1 on the following grammars:

> a) The grammar of Exercise 4.2.1.

> $$
S~\rightarrow~S~S~+~|~S~S~*~|~a$$

> b) The grammar of Exercise 4.2.2(a).

> $$
S~\rightarrow~0~S~1~|~0~1$$

> c) The grammar of Exercise 4.2.2(c).

> $$
S~\rightarrow~S~(~S~)~S~|~\epsilon$$

> d) The grammar of Exercise 4.2.2(e).

> $$
\begin{array}{lll}
S &\rightarrow& (~L~)~|~a \\
L &\rightarrow& L~,~S~|~S~ \\
\end{array}$$

> e) The grammar of Exercise 4.2.2(g).

> $$
\begin{array}{lll}
bexpr &\rightarrow& bexpr~\mathbf{or}~bterm~|~bterm \\
bterm &\rightarrow& bterm~\mathbf{and}~bfactor~|~bfactor \\
bfactor &\rightarrow& \mathbf{not}~bfactor~|~(~bexpr~)~|~\mathbf{true}~|~\mathbf{false} \\
\end{array}
$$

### 4.3.3

> The following grammar is proposed to remove the "dangling-else ambiguity" discussed in Section 4.3.2:

> $$
\begin{array}{lcl}
stmt &\rightarrow& \mathbf{if}~expr~\mathbf{then}~stmt \\
&|& matchedStmt \\
matchedStmt &\rightarrow& \mathbf{if}~expr~\mathbf{then}~matchedStmt~\mathbf{else}~stmt \\
&|& \mathbf{other} \\
\end{array}
$$

> Show that this grammar is still ambiguous.

