## 2.2 Syntax Definition

### 2.2.1

>  Consider the context-free grammar

> $$S ~\rightarrow~ S~S~+~|~S~S~*~|~\mathbf{a}$$

> a) Show how the string $$\mathbf{a}\mathbf{a}+\mathbf{a}*$$ can be generated by this grammar.

$$
\begin{array}{rll}
S &\rightarrow& SS* \\
&\rightarrow& SS+\mathbf{a}* \\
&\rightarrow& \mathbf{a}\mathbf{a}+\mathbf{a}* \\
\end{array}
$$

> b) Construct a parse tree for this string.

```
        +------S------+
        |      |      |
        |      |      |
        |      |      |
    +---S---+  S      *
    |   |   |  |
    |   |   |  |
    S   S   +  a
    |   |
    |   |
    a   a

```

> c) What language does this grammar generate? Justify your answer.

Post-fix additions and multiplications.

### 2.2.2

> What language is generated by the following grammars? In each case justify your answer.

> a) $$S~\rightarrow~0~S~1~|~0~1$$

$$n$$ zeros and $$n$$ ones, $$n > 0$$.

> b) $$S~\rightarrow~+~S~S~|~-~S~S~|~\mathbf{a}$$

Prefix additions and multiplications.

> c) $$S~\rightarrow~S~(~S~)~S~|~\epsilon$$

A sequence of matched parentheses.

> d) $$S~\rightarrow~\mathbf{a}~S~\mathbf{b}~S~|~\mathbf{b}~S~\mathbf{a}~S~|~\epsilon$$

A string with same number of $$\mathbf{a}$$ and $$\mathbf{b}$$.

> e) $$S~\rightarrow~\mathbf{a}~|~S~+~S~|~S~S~|~S~*~|~(~S~)$$

Regular expressions.

### 2.2.3

> Which of the grammars in Exercise 2.2.2 are ambiguous?

c, d, e

### 2.2.4

> Construct unambiguous context-free grammars for each of the following languages. In each case show that your grammar is correct.

> a) Arithmetic expressions in postfix notation.

> b) Left-associative lists of identifiers separated by commas.

> c) Right-associative lists of identifiers separated by commas.

> d) Arithmetic expressions of integers and identifiers with the four binary operators +, -, *, /.
